1. Root Element
   Last updated July 2023

---

We'd like to develop further the concept of the root element, which could also be called the container.

This root element that you pass to ReactDOM will become completely managed by ReactDOM. So you should not write any kind of JavaScript that changes its content.

So once you have:

```
<div id="react-root"></div>
```

```
import React from "react";
import {createRoot} from "react-dom/client";

const root = document.querySelector("#react-root");
createRoot(root).render(React.createElement("h1", {}, "Hello World"));
```

You are not supposed to do anything else with the root variable and the <div id="react-root">...</div> because ReactDOM will manage it.
We say managed by ReactDOM because later on, you will be rendering more complicated things than Elements which would update in the future. And ReactDOM will take care of updating these.

2. Use cases

---

There are two major use cases for React; here's how they affect the root element:

2.1 Apps built with React

---

An app built with React usually has a single root element, just like we'll be seeing throughout this course.
The whole application is rendered inside that root element.

2.2 Integrate React into an existing App

---

It is also possible to have an existing website built with another technology other than React and then integrate React to make a certain part of that website interactive.

For example, say you've got a Supermarket website built with Ruby on Rails or Laravel (a backend framework for Ruby, PHP respectively), and you would like to make the cart feature interactive, you could decide to use React to make that possible.

In that case, the cart logic would go into a <div id="react-cart"></div> root element.

And your application could potentially contain more than one root element in the future.

/**********\*\***********\*\***********\*\***********\*\*\*\***********\*\***********\*\***********\*\***********/
Recap

    ReactDOM completely manages the root element
    You should not directly change/update the content of the root element
    Apps built with React have a single root element (The most common use case)
    Existing Apps that integrate React to make a feature interactive could have more than one root.

/**********\*\***********\*\***********\*\***********\*\*\*\***********\*\***********\*\***********\*\***********/
