Changing state 

Last updated June 2022
***

In this chapter, we'll see how to update the state and how React & ReactDOM will automatically re-render the Component and show us the updates in the browser.

1. A quick intro to Events
****
   We have several chapters entirely dedicated to events in React.
However, we'd like to have a quick intro now about the most basic Event you can achieve in React in order to update the state when the user clicks on a <button>.

So in this project, we'll only work with click events on the <button> element.

To add a click event on a <button>, we have to add the onClick (case sensitive) attribute, and assign it to an arrow function: () => 

```
function Welcome() {
    return <button onClick={() => console.log("button was clicked")}>Click me</button>
}
```
This will log button was clicked every time you click on the button.

Let's break down the syntax **onClick={() => console.log("button was clicked")}:**

**onClick={}** JSX attribute with a dynamic expression.
onClick adds an event listener
**() => console.log("button was clicked")** is an arrow function. Because the body of the arrow function is just 1 line, we can omit the {}. You can also write: **() => {console.log("button was clicked")}**

2. Changing state
****

State is a variable that we can update at some point in the future.
For example, when the user clicks a button or when you get data from an API.
For now, we'll stick with a simplified example to isolate the concepts you're going to learn.

In this chapter, we'll update the state when a button is clicked.

To update the state, you always have to use the 'set' function that you get back from useState.

So if we created a state called seconds, then we have to use the setSeconds(newValue) function that we destructured. Let's use the same Stopwatch Component as before:

import {useState} from "react";

function Stopwatch() {
    // hooks have to be at the top
    const [seconds, setSeconds] = useState(0);

    return (<>
        <h2>{seconds}</h2>
        {/* increment seconds state by 1, when you click on the button*/}
        <button onClick={() => setSeconds(seconds + 1)}>Click to add 1</button>
    </>);
}
Notice how we update the state by calling setSeconds() and passing to it the new value of the state.
The new value of the state is seconds + 1, which is effectively: the current value + 1.
That's because seconds holds the current value of the state, so seconds + 1 will increment it by 1.

Note that there is a better way to update the state in this example, but you don't have to worry about it for now. We discuss that in chapter 36 (functional state updates).

Recap
onClick={() => console.log("Hello World")} is a click event that works on a <button> and logs "Hello World"
You always have to use the 'set' function that you get back from useState (for example: setSeconds, setCount)
