1. ReactDOM Intro:

---

ReactDOM is the glue between React and the DOM.
React creates a virtual representation of your User Interface (in what we call a Virtual DOM). Then ReactDOM is the library that efficiently updates the DOM based on that Virtual DOM.

The Virtual DOM exists to figure out which parts of the UI need to be updated and then batch these changes together. ReactDOM receives those instructions from React and then efficiently updates the DOM.

2. Why is it a separate library?

---

A few years ago, React, and ReactDOM were part of the same library called React.
However, they got split into two separate libraries: React and ReactDOM, to allow for the launch of React Native.

React Native is the glue between React and native apps. React Native is outside the scope of this course but as you can see, React is the library that lets you write reusable UI and then:

    1. ReactDOM makes this UI visible in the browser.
    2. React Native makes this UI visible in a native app.

It's important to remember that the React library has nothing to do with a web browser:

    1. ReactDOM binds the idea of React to a web browser (example: Firefox, Chrome, Safari, Edge, etc.).
    2. Whereas React Native binds the idea of React to a native app (example: native android, native iOS).

3. Reconciliation

---

React is creating the virtual representation of your UI in the memory, and then ReactDOM receives that and syncs your UI (and the changes to it) to the DOM. This process is called reconciliation.

As a React developer, this is a feature you get out of the box with React. You do not have to worry about how it works (however, we will see later in this course why immutability is required for reconciliation to work).
ReactDOM visual
/**********************************************\*\*\*\***********************************************/
Recap

    1. ReactDOM is the glue between React and the DOM.
    2. ReactDOM is separate from React because you can write React for native applications.
    3. Reconciliation is the process of syncing the Virtual DOM to the actual DOM

/**********************************************\*\*\*\***********************************************/
