2. ReactDOM Usage
   Last updated February 2023

---

Let's start by installing ReactDOM:

```
npm install react-dom
```

This is something you have to do on top of the previous installation.
So if you were getting started from scratch, you'd have to install both packages (react & react-dom) like this:

```
npm install react react-dom
```

2. Import Cost

How much does ReactDOM weigh? ReactDOM weighs 130KB.
So in total, React + ReactDOM weigh 130 + 6 = 136KB.

When developing products for emerging markets or markets with slow internet connections, you may want to consider a lighter alternative such as Preact. We will have an introduction to Preact toward the end of this course in an optional chapter (a chapter you can skip).

3. Importing ReactDOM

---

We will only need to import one method called createRoot. This method is importable from react-dom/client:

```
import {createRoot} from "react-dom/client";

// You can call createRoot()
```

Make sure you import from react-dom/client rather than react-dom. The latter would fail.

4. Root of your app

---

We use ReactDOM to render (visualize) our React Elements on the page.
To do that, you have to tell ReactDOM where to render these elements.
We call that element the root.
This is a <div> element with an id of root or app-root or react-root or whatever name you prefer.
Let's go with root for this example:

```
<div id="root"></div>
```

Render your first Element

With the above root element, we can now render our first React Element:

```
import {createRoot} from "react-dom/client";

const root = document.querySelector("#root");
createRoot(root).render(React.createElement("p", {}, "Hello World"));
```

This will show you a <p>Hello World</p> on your screen because the createRoot().render() method from ReactDOM receives a React Element (a virtual representation) and then makes it visible in the actual DOM.
Let's break the code down:

    1. We start by getting a reference to the root element from the page (using querySelector or getElementById).
    2. We create the root of the React app using createRoot(root).
    3. On the result of createRoot(root), we call .render() and pass to it our React element.

5. Does it feel overcomplicated?

---

You may be wondering if all of this is worth it, but keep in mind that it's totally normal to feel that way because the benefit of React (and other libraries) will only become visible once we start working with larger (and real-world) examples.

6. React 16

---

There used to be a render method exported from react-dom. This got deprecated in React 18 to make way for React 18's concurrent features. If you see the code below, note that it's outdated (but still works in React 18):

```
// 👎 Outdated code
import {render} from "react-dom";

const root = document.querySelector("#root");
// 👎 Outdated code
render(React.createElement("p", {}, "Hello World"), root);
```

/**********************\*\***********************\*\*\*\***********************\*\***********************/
Recap

    1. Install ReactDOM with npm install react-dom
    2. Import ReactDOM's createRoot method with import {createRoot} from "react-dom/client"
    3. ReactDOM weighs 130KB when imported.
    4. The root element is where ReactDOM will render your UI
    5. createRoot(root).render(element);

/**********************\*\***********************\*\*\*\***********************\*\***********************/
