1. JSX Expressions
   Last updated February 2023

---

You've just unlocked your React Knowledge Map ⚡️.

This Interactive graph gives you a glance of the topics you've learned and yet have to learn. Completed topics will link back to their relevant lesson.
Interactive graph showing all the topics covered in this course.

You can access your knowledge map from the top-right menu. Enjoy!

So far, we've been working with plain React Elements. They always had a specific text and class names that were not dynamic.

It's time to learn about JSX Expressions.

2. What is an expression?

---

An expression is any valid JavaScript code that resolves to a value.
This means it's any JavaScript code that has an end result, for example:

    3 + 4
    "Sam"
    new Date()
    2 * 4
    name (assuming the variable name has been declared).

And the list goes on.

Every one of these expressions resolves to a value, for example:

    3 + 4 resolve to the number 7.
    "Sam" resolves to string "Sam".
    new Date() resolves to a date object.
    2 * 4 resolves to the number 8.
    name resolves to the value of that variable, which will most likely be a string.

3. Expressions in JSX

---

You can use these expressions in JSX by wrapping them with curly brackets {}.

Basic example

```const title = <h1>You have {2 + 3} notifications</h1>;

```

---

This will create an h1 element with the text: You have 5 notifications.

See how the expression (2 + 3) gets executed and resolves to 5, which then gets replaced so that the final text is You have 5 notifications.
For it to work, expressions must be inside those curly braces.

3.1 Variables

---

It's often useful to have variables in those expressions, for example, to show the user's name in the navbar:

```const user = {
    id: 1,
    name: "Sam"
};

const element = <p className="user-info">Welcome {user.name}!</p>
```

This will create a p element with the text: Welcome Sam!.

3.2 Function calls

---

You can also call functions inside those expressions, for example:

```function capitalise(word) {
    return word[0].toUpperCase() + word.substring(1).toLowerCase();
}
const name = "brendan";

const element = <p className="user-info">Welcome {capitalise(name)}</p>
```

which will create a paragraph with the text: Welcome Brendan (notice how the B is uppercased).

3.3 Any other JavaScript expression

---

These were some examples; you can have any kind of valid expression inside the curly braces.

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
Recap

    An expression is any valid JavaScript code that resolves to a value
    Expressions in JSX need to be wrapped inside curly braces: {expression}
    <h1 className="title">You have {2 + 3} notifications</h1> is an example of JSX with an expression.

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
