1. React intro
   Last updated March 2023

---

React is a JavaScript library created and primarily maintained by Facebook (Meta).

The course was recently entirely updated from React 16 to React 18. Enjoy!

2. Short definition

---

React is a JavaScript library for building User Interfaces.

3. Longer definition

---

React is a JavaScript library that is only responsible for the view layer of your application.
This means it is only responsible for rendering your User Interface (such as the text, text boxes, buttons, etc.) as well as updating the UI whenever it changes.

For example, say you're building an e-commerce website and would like to maintain the number of items in the shopping bag as the user adds and removes items. React makes it easier for you to specify that you'd like to show the number of items in the shopping bag: {items.length}.
React will display that (the number of items in the shopping bag) and update it whenever it changes.

It also allows you to reuse this logic in another part of your UI. Say, for example, on the payment page; you can reuse the same logic without having to re-write it.

When learning React (or any other frontend library), it would seem overcomplicated or over-engineered. It is normal to feel that way because the benefit of these libraries is primarily visible when you build medium-sized or large web applications with several team members. So keep that in mind when learning and remember that the goal is to write maintainable and efficient code.

4. React is NOT a framework

---

React is a library and not a framework.
The difference between a library and a framework is that a library only helps you in one aspect. In contrast, a framework helps you in many aspects. Let's take an example:

    React is a library because it only takes care of your UI.
    Angular, on the other hand, is a framework because it handles much more than the UI (It handles Dependency Injection, CSS encapsulation, etc.)

5. React is not about the design of your UI

---

React itself is not a UI Library as in it does not give you beautifully designed buttons or cards.
It helps you manage complicated UI but does not come with a design system.
It will be up to you to choose a design library or use CSS to make it look nice and user-friendly.

6. What about Web Components?

---

If you've taken my Learn JavaScript course, then you've probably learned about Web Components.

You could use Web Components to develop a Web Application; you don't necessarily need React.
You could also use React to complement your Web Components and vice-versa.
The main benefit of Web Components is that they work everywhere. And the main benefit of React is that it moves faster than Web Components. And this is pretty natural because Web Components are a standard (defined and implemented by the browsers), and React is a library that is not standardized.

---

Recap

    1. React is a JavaScript library for building User Interfaces.
    2. React is only responsible for the View layer.
    3. React is not a framework.

---
