1. Install & Setup
   Last updated May 2023

---

To install the react package into your project, you need to install it using a package manager (such as npm or yarn).
We'll use the Node Package Manager (npm) throughout this course.

---

npm install react

---

In this course, all the packages you will need are already installed, so you just have to import them.

If you'd like to set up a local React project on your computer, then it's recommended that you use Vite.
We will be covering this tool in chapter 30. For now, we'll start by explaining concepts at a slow, step-by-step pace to ensure that you understand React entirely.
This makes it easier for you to build more advanced concepts. Trust us—it will work. We just need your patience and perseverance! 😉

2. Importing React

---

React is not part of the browser, so you must import it into every JavaScript file where you will need it. Every JavaScript file is a standalone module, meaning variables, functions, and imports in one file/module do not affect other files/modules.

Here's how you can import React (assuming you've already installed it):

---

import React from "react";

---

This is called a default import because it follows the following syntax: import Something from "package-name".
A named export would be imported like this: import {Something} from "package-name".

Note how we're importing from "react".
This is called a bare import because you're not importing from a file path. Example of importing from a file path: import Something from "./file". Importing from a file path always starts with ./.

When running a code bundler such as webpack, Parcel, or Vite, then bare imports such as these are resolved from your node_modules folder.
It will look for node_modules/react/ to figure out how to import that package.
This is why you need to install react in the first place, which downloads it in your node_modules folder.

This import will not work with a <script type="module">. In chapter 30, we introduce Vite. Suppose you already want to start working with React and do not want to wait until chapter 30. In that case, we recommend using online editors such as CodeSandbox and StackBlitz.

3. The React object

---

When you import React, you get a React object that contains methods and properties.
We will be learning about the methods step by step. Let's start with one of the properties, which is version.
A quick side note: A method is a function you need to call with parentheses, whereas a property is a value often pre-calculated.

React exposes its current version through the version property; here's how you can read it, assuming you've imported React:

---

console.log(React.version); //"18.1.0"
\*\* 4. Import Cost

---

Every time you have an import in your code, pay attention that you are adding code to your application.
We'll inform you by telling you the size of every package we mention in this course.
If you've got VSCode setup on your computer, then make sure to install the Import Cost extension as it will show you the size of your imports.

The cost of importing React is approximately 6KB.

---

Recap

    Install react with npm install react
    Import React in every file you need it with import React from "react"
    Get the current React version with React.version
    React weighs 6KB when imported.

---
