1. Spread attributes
   Last updated August 2022

---

Let's start with a recap of JavaScript's spread operator:

```
const person = {
    id: 1,
    name: "Sam"
};

const details = {
    age: 23,
    loggedIn: true
};

const person_details = {...person, ...details};
/*
{
    id: 1,
    name: "Sam",
    age: 23,
    loggedIn: true
}
*/
```

Notice how ...person spreads all the keys and values of the object into the new person_details and the same thing for ...details.

Let's take a look at another use case of spread operator:

```
const person = {
    id: 1,
    name: "Sam",
    age: 23,
}
```

Say you want to create a new object that contains all the keys and values except the id, here's how you can do it with the... and destructuring:

```
const {id, ...rest} = person;
console.log(id); //1
console.log(rest); //{name: "Sam", age: 23}
```

Notice how we're destructuring the id from person (which is equivalent to person.id), and then, later on, we ask for all the other keys and values to be saved in a new object called rest.

And thus, you end up with a new object containing all the other keys and values (without the id because it has already been destructured).

In this example, the ... is called the rest property as you're extracting all the rest (remaining) properties.

2. JSX Spread Attributes

---

Sometimes it's useful to do the same in JSX, for example, you've got a Component that receives many props, and you'd like to take the Children out and then destructure all the rest into a new variable and then pass those down to an element:

```
function Navbar(props) {
    const {children, ...rest} = props;
    return <h1 {...rest}>{children}</h1>;
}
```

Notice how we start by destructuring the children from props, then we create a new object called rest which contains all the other props.
And finally, we spread this object into the <h1>, which is effectively passing every prop to the <h1> element.

So say you'd use the Navbar as: <Navbar tabIndex="2" className="navbar">Hello World</Navbar>, then you'd get a variable children = "Hello World" and a rest variable with the following object:

```
{
    tabIndex: "2",
    className: "navbar"
}
```

and then your Component will return the following React Element:

<h1 tabIndex="2" className="navbar">Hello World</h1>

Imagine we add a new attribute, for example: disabled={true}, then your code still works and will still apply the disabled attribute on the h1 without having to update our Component.

3. When to use it?

---

While spread attributes can be useful, they also make it easy to pass unnecessary props to components that don't care about them.

The most common use case of Spread Attributes is when you're building a UI Kit and want to make it possible to customize the rendered element.
/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
Recap

    1. Spreading attributes in JSX allows you to take all the props (or a portion of the props) and pass them down to the element being rendered without having to write all the props one by one.
    2. Spreading attributes is mostly used when building UI Kits

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
