
Array destructuring intro
Last updated June 2022
*****
In this chapter, we'll deep dive into array destructuring because that's an important prerequisite for Hooks (a React concept).

Even if you already know array destructuring, keep reading as we'll cover some advanced concepts.

1. Basic Array Destructuring
****
Let's start with the most basic example of Array Destructuring.

Array destructuring allows you to have a shorter syntax when reading multiple entries of an array. For example, instead of writing:

```
const dimensions = [20, 5]

const width = dimensions[0]; //20
const height = dimensions[1]; //5
```
You can create the two variables width and height in a shorter syntax, which is called array destructuring:

```
const dimensions = [20, 5]

const [width, height] = dimensions;
```
The way it works is that width will be assigned to dimensions[0] (because it was the first item in the destructuring), and height will be assigned to dimensions[1] (because it was the second item in the destructuring).
The order of the variables inside the [] syntax directly correlates to the array's index that will be destructured.

Here's another example of array destructuring:

```
const point = [3.3124, 14.52028, 10]; //coordinates

const [lat, lng, elevation] = point

console.log(lat); //3.3124
console.log(lng); //14.52028
console.log(elevation); //10
```
Remember that this is called syntactic sugar, which makes the code easier to read (you may disagree with that at first, but once you get used to it, it becomes easier to read).

2. Arrays containing various data types
****
Array destructuring still works even if the array contains various data types, for example integers, strings, objects, functions, etc.. For example:

```
//data contains the name, followed by the age, followed by the details object
const data = ["Sam", 23, {
    id: 1,
    created_at: "Jan 19"
}];
```
You can destructure this data array into three variables using the usual destructuring syntax:

```
const [name, age, details] = data;
```
and you will get:

    1. the name which is "Sam"
    2. the age which is 23
    3. the details which is {id: 1, created_at: "Jan 19"}

We're showing you that destructuring works no matter the array's content.
It could even contain a function or a boolean.

Recap
***
   1. Array destructuring is a shorter syntax for creating variables out of the items of an array.
   2. Array destructuring works regardless of the data types in the array.

