Array destructuring advanced
Last updated June 2022

Say you have the function getUser below:

function sayHello() {
    return "Welcome!";
}

function getUser() {
    //return the id and a function that welcomes the user
    return [15, sayHello];
}

What is this function returning?

    You should first notice that getUser() returns an array.
    Then, you should notice that this array contains two items.
    The first item is a number.
    The second item is a function.

sayHello is a function reference that we can call later (we'll see how).

But now, question: Can we still use destructuring after we call getUser()?

const result = getUser();

const id = result[0];
const sayHello = result[1];

Can we destructure getUser()?
Well, we can! It's technically the same syntax, but we thought we'd break it down because it might be confusing at first.

Let's do it step by step:

const result = getUser();
const [id, sayHello] = result;

This is how we destructure the result variable, but we can go a step further and destructure getUser() directly without having to create an extra variable (result):

const [id, sayHello] = getUser();

So we're destructuring id and sayHello, which correspond to index 0 and 1, respectively, of the returned data from getUser().
How do we call sayHello?

Since sayHello is a function, you can call it by adding (). Here's the full example:

function sayHello() {
    return "Welcome!";
}

function getUser() {
    //return the id and a function that welcomes the user
    return [15, sayHello];
}

const [id, sayHelloFunction] = getUser();
console.log(id); //15
console.log(sayHelloFunction()); //Welcome!

It may be unclear why we'd want to do that, but stay tuned for the next chapter!
Recap

    You can destructure from a function, assuming the function is returning an array of elements

