State with Hooks
Last updated April 2023
***
In this chapter, we'll learn about state in React while using hooks.

We will be focusing on the state more than hooks for now, but don't worry, as we will spend several chapters explaining state and hooks step by step, just like you're used to in this course.

1. What is State?
***
State refers to any variable defined inside a Component with the intent to update later.

For example: when creating a <Stopwatch /> component, we need to keep track of the elapsed seconds. The elapsed seconds cannot be a props for 2 reasons:

   1. It should be contained inside the <Stopwatch /> rather than passed from outside
   2. It should update/change! Props are supposed to be pure and should not be updated/changed.

If you're wondering what we mean by "it should be contained inside the Component rather than passed from outside", remember that props are passed from outside, for example:

```
<Stopwatch theme="dark" />
```
The theme is a prop because it's passed from outside.
The theme cannot be changed from within the Stopwatch component; it has to change from the outside. Once it's changed from the outside, it gets processed again by the component.

This is why theme is a prop. We don't plan on updating it from inside the Stopwatch.

Whereas the elapsed seconds is a state because we plan on starting it/stopping it from inside the <Stopwatch /> component.

1. What happens when the state changes?
***
When the state is updated, ReactDOM will efficiently and automatically re-render the Component to the DOM. We'll see how this works soon.

2. Another example
***
Let's take another example.

Say you're creating an <Item /> component that contains a counter.
The user can then increment/decrement the counter using the + and - buttons as they decide how many items they would like to order.
The counter is a state variable that will be updated when the user clicks on the + and - buttons.
When the user clicks these buttons, the counter will re-render on the UI automatically.
So 0 item(s) would show 1 item(s) when the user clicks on the + button.

We will build this component in the following few chapters (once we learn about State, Hooks & Events), so stay tuned!

Recap
***
    1. State refers to any variable defined inside a Component with the intent to update later.
    2. State variables can be updated from inside the component.
    3. When a state variable is updated, the component automatically re-renders.
***
