useState 
Last updated March 2023
*****
Now that we know how to import the useState function, let's create our first state variable.

For that, we need to call the useState which has the following signature useState(initial_value).

The initial_value is the value that the state will have in the beginning.
For example, to create a <Stopwatch /> Component, we'll need a seconds state variable and that state variable will start at 0.
Which means that the initial value is 0.

So here's how you create the state: useState(0).

What does useState return?
This will sound familiar because we spent an entire chapter breaking it down 😄
useState returns an array of 2 items:

the first one is the current value of the state
the second one is a function that updates the state (this will be explained later)
So instead of writing:

const result = useState(0)
const seconds = result[0];
const setSeconds = result[1];
We will use the array destructuring syntax:

const [seconds, setSeconds] = useState(0);
seconds is now the number which has a value of 0 and setSeconds is a function that we will explain later.

It is important to name the destructured properties as follows:

The first one should be called the name of the state (in this example seconds)
The second one should be called set and then followed by the capitalized name of the state (in this example setSeconds)
This is important as your Components will get more complicated, it's necessary to know that seconds is the state and setSeconds is the function that updates the seconds state.

Full example
Let's take a full example using state:

import {useState} from "react";

function Stopwatch() {
    const [seconds, setSeconds] = useState(0);

    return <div>{seconds}</div>
}
Notice how we call useState(0) inside the Stopwatch Component.

Important things to note:

You should only call useState inside the Component, not outside.
The useState should be the first thing you call inside that function (we'll explain why later on)
Also note that because the seconds state is a variable, you can use it as an expression inside JSX: <div>{seconds}</div>.

No updates yet
We will not update the value of seconds in this chapter, so it's normal that you feel the Component is not much smarter than before.

Also note that when we create the state items:

const [items, setItems] = useState(0)
then items will be equal to 0 because that's the initial value that we passed.

Recap
The useState() function takes the initial_value as the only argument.
The useState() function returns an array of 2 items
Always destructure the useState into abc and setAbc where abc is the name of the state
The default value of the state variable returned by useState will be the same as the initial_value passed to useState().
