1. Destructuring
   Last updated June 2022

---

Let's start with a recap of destructuring, a syntax feature in the JavaScript language.

1.1 Destructuring recap

---

Let's say we've got this object person:

```
const person = {
    firstName: "Sam",
    lastName: "Doe",
    age: 24
}
```

and you'd like to create 2 variables, one for the firstName and the other one for the lastName:

```
const firstName = person.firstName;
const lastName = person.lastName;
```

You could do all of that in one line using the destructuring syntax below:

```
const {firstName, lastName} = person;
```

You could also provide a default value for a variable, in case it did not exist in the object. Example:

const {firstName, lastName, status = 'single'} = person;

In our case, status will default to "single" because it does not exist on the person object.

2. Destructuring props

---

You don't necessarily have to destructure props, but you will see many tutorials and many developers using it. Thus it's important to be comfortable with this technique.

Since props are an object, you can use destructuring for props.

Before destructuring:

```
function WelcomeUser(props) {
    const username = props.username;
    const notifications = props.notifications;

    return <div>Welcome {username}! You've got {notifications} unread notifications.</div>;
}
```

After destructuring:

```
function WelcomeUser(props) {
    const {username, notifications} = props;

    return <div>Welcome {username}! You've got {notifications} unread notifications.</div>;
}
```

Destructuring in the argument

You can also destructure the props variable in the argument, this may be harder to read at first but you will also see it being used in the wild:

```
function WelcomeUser({username, notifications}) {
    return <div>Welcome {username}! You've got {notifications} unread notifications.</div>;
}
```

Instead of writing WelcomeUser(props) you immediately replace props with {username, notifications} which is extracting props.username and props.notifications and creating the 2 variables: username and notifications.

We don't recommend you overuse this technique as it could make your code hard to read when the number of variables increases.

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
Recap

    1. Props are an object, so you can destructure them.
    2. You can destructure the props in the argument.

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
