JavaScript Closures 
Last updated September 2022
****
Closures is one of those concepts in JavaScript that appears to be complicated, but in reality, it's not. So what's a closure?

A closure is where an inner function has access to the outer function's variables. Let's take a look at the example below:

```
function getUser() {
    const name = "Sam";

    function getWelcomeMessage() {
        return `Hello ${name}`;
    }

    return {
        name: name,
        message: getWelcomeMessage()
    }
}
```
Notice how we've got a closure? It's because we've got a function getWelcomeMessage inside the getUser function.
Here's an explanation of the code:

    1. The getUser function defines a variable name which is equal to "Sam".
    2. Then inside of that function, we define a function getWelcomeMessage which returns Hello ${name}.
    3. Then we return an object containing the name and the message
    4. Where message is the result of getWelcomeMessage().
    
You may have noticed that the variable name is available to the getWelcomeMessage because getWelcomeMessage is defined inside getUser.
So because name is defined in getUser, then it will be available to any function defined inside getUser, in this example, getWelcomeMessage.

***Closures visual picture not indlucded.***

Looking at this visual above, look at how getUser defines a name variable, which then becomes available in any function defined inside getUser.
So because getWelcomeMessage is defined in getUser, you will be able to use the variable name.
That's it!

Note that the concept of closures also applies to any function, not necessarily a function within a function, for example:

```
const name = "Sam";

function getUser() {
    return name; // this works because the function has access to the outer scope.
}
```
To be clear, the code above is not recommended in real-life projects, which is why we're going to focus on examples you will actually use in real-life projects and in React.

2. Also applies to arrow functions
****
The same concept also applies for arrow functions, so if you rewrite it with arrow functions:

```
const getUser = () => {
    const name = "Sam";

    const getWelcomeMessage = () => {
        return `Hello ${name}`;
    }

    return {
        name: name,
        message: getWelcomeMessage()
    }
}
```

The same concept still applies, and we will get the same result.

3. Why is it useful?
****

This will become clearer in the next chapter once we go back to React Components!
But mostly, closures are useful because we'd like to define a new function while keeping access to the variables defined in the outer function.
It may sound like closures is a "feature" that you decide to use, but in fact, a closure is what you get when you define a function.

4. Use unique variable names
*****

One question that might pop up is: What happens if there's an existing variable name in the current function?

The answer is that JavaScript will start looking in the current context before going outside the function. It keeps going until it reaches the global context, the window object.

In general, we recommend using unique variable names, so you don't have to worry about this. However, here's an example that uses the same variable name:
```
let test = 1;

function doSomething() {
    return test;
}

doSomething(); // 1
```
Now, let's define a variable test with a value of 2 inside the function:
```
let test = 1;

function doSomething() {
    let test = 2;
    return test;
}

doSomething(); // 2
```

When working with such examples, avoid using the variable name name since window.name is already defined by the browser.

Recap
*****
1. A closure is where an inner function has access to the outer function's variables.
2. Functions in JavaScript have access to their outer scope. This is called closures.
3. Closures is what you get when you define a function; it's not something you have to "enable" or decide to use.
4. Functions defined inside another function can use the variables defined in the outer function.
