1. UI Kit

---

Follow the instructions component by component, make sure the component's test pass before moving on to the next section.
Create the following Components such that we have a functioning basic UI Kit:

1. Link

   1. Start by importing the Link component in the index.js and using it in the App component for the tests to pass
   2. Should return an <a> element
   3. That element should have the provided text.
   4. It should also set the href attribute.
   5. It should set the class to ui-link which you can find in the index.css

```
For example: <Link href="https://react-tutorial.app">Shop online</Link> should render an <a href="https://react-tutorial.app" class="ui-link">Shop online</a> element.
```

2. Button

   1. Should generate a <button> element with the text provided.
   2. It should also set the type and disabled attributes as they are received from the props.
   3. It should set the class to ui-button

3. Container

   1. Should render a <div> element that wraps everything inside it.
   2. Should have the class ui-container

```
This is an example of what wrapping means <Container><p>content</p></Container>. This would end up rendering: <div class="ui-container"><p>content</p></div>
```

4. Input

   1. Should render an <input /> element.
   2. Should set the type to type="text" by default (when the type prop has not been specified).
   3. It should also let the user change the type, so <Input type="email" /> should override the default type and set it to type="email".
   4. It should also accept the placeholder and name attributes.
   5. It should set the class to ui-textfield

---

5. Notes

   1. Make sure to use the Components at least once in the <App /> Component for it to pass the tests.
   2. Make sure to use the classes provided in the index.css. For example: <Button /> needs to have the class ui-button on the <button> it renders.
   3. You do NOT need to import the index.css as it is automatically injected in the page.
   4. We also recommend that you experiment with the different Components & attributes and see how they work in the browser preview.
