1. Components under the hood
   Last updated April 2023

---

In the previous lesson, we used JSX to render the <Hero></Hero> Component to the DOM.

Here's how React knows that this is a Component rather than an Element:

    1. React checks the first character of this Component, which is F (from Footer).
    2. Is it an uppercase letter? Then it's a Component.
    3. Is it a lowercase letter? Then it's an Element.

From the React documentation: The first part of a JSX tag determines the type of the React element. Capitalized types indicate that the JSX tag is referring to a React component.
Because React treats components starting with lowercase letters as DOM tags, <footer> would NOT work in this case; it will render the HTML5 <footer> element rather than your own Component Footer.

2. Element vs. Component?

---

So what's the difference between a React Element and a React Component?

We will ask ourselves this question in a later chapter as we learn more concepts, but for now:
A React Component is a function that returns a React Element.

3. Composing Components

---

Here's a glimpse of how your application will look in the future:

```<App>
    <Navbar>
        <Logo />
        <Title>Supermarket</Title>
    </Navbar>
    <BrowserRouter>
        {/*...*/}
    </BrowserRouter>
    <Footer>
    </Footer>
</App>
```

As you can see, it's a mix of Components.
Do you suspect there's a bug in the Navbar? Then you only have to look in the Navbar Component.

3.1 Self-closing tags

---

Just like with Elements, you can use the self-closing syntax for Components that do not have any children. So instead of writing <Logo></Logo> you can write: <Logo />.

4. JSX to React.createElement

---

As usual, when you write JSX, it gets converted to React.createElement calls.
Let's see what that looks like for Components:

```const element = <Footer />;

```

gets converted to:

```const element = React.createElement(Footer, {});

```

As you can see, this is passing a reference to the function Footer, which React.createElement will then call.
Notice how we're only passing the name of the function Footer (without parentheses) rather than calling it ourselves (with parentheses); that's because we want to tell React which function we're referring to. And then React will call it when necessary.

5. Beware of infinite loops

---

It's easy to create infinite loops when you're getting started with React; for example, this code will make an infinite loop that will crash your browser - but not React Tutorial ;) Most of the time, we'll be able to notify you if you're about to create an infinite loop.

```function Button() {
    // Be careful: this is an infinite loop
    return <Button></Button>;
}
```

That's because the <Button></Button> JSX will be converted to React.createElement(Button) calls which will eventually call the Button function. So you'd end up with a function Button that keeps calling itself repeatedly.

In this case, we probably meant to return <button></button> (lower case) which is the HTML Element button rather than the component Button.
/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
Recap

    1. The first part of a JSX tag determines the type of the React element.
    2. Capitalized types indicate that the JSX tag refers to a React component.
    3. A React Component is a function that returns a React Element.

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
