One Component per file
Last updated June 2022

An app built with React will have multiple components.

A best practice is to define one component per file so that you can find it later on (there are exceptions to this, but don't worry about them for now).
It's recommended that the name of the file matches the name of the Component, for example:

    file: Footer.js for the Component Footer
    file: AppNavbar.js for the Component AppNavbar

index.js

Your app will still have an index.js which is the main entry point of your app (this is sometimes called app.js).

So, you define components in other files and then use them in the index.js.
Example

Let's see how we can do that by having two files: Footer.js and index.js:

The Footer.js file defines the Footer component:

//Footer.js
export default function Footer() {
return (
<>
<h3>Footer</h3>
<p>All rights reserved</p>
</>
);
}

Notice how this file will export default the Footer component.
This is required for us to be able to use the Footer component in other files.

//index.js
import {createRoot} from "react-dom/client";
import Footer from "./Footer.js";

function App() {
return (<>
<Footer />
<Footer />
</>);
}

const root = document.querySelector("#root");

createRoot(root).render(<App />);

Notice how the index.js has to import the Footer component from ./Footer.js to be able to use it.

That's because: <Footer /> gets converted into: React.createElement(Footer, {}) so for it to work, the function Footer has to be in scope, which means it has to be imported.

Also, notice how we rendered the Footer twice by just using the component twice in the App component.
Always name your exports

While it is possible to export a component function without giving it a name (an anonymous function), we recommend that you always name your exports. This will help you debug your code as you will be able to see the component name when something breaks inside of it, rather than seeing error in anonymous function.

//Footer.js
// this is NOT recommended
export default function () {
return (
<h3>Footer</h3>
);
}

Recap

    Define one component per file for easier maintenance.
    Make the name of the file match the name of the Component.
    To be able to use a Component that you defined, you need to export it.
    To be able to use a Component defined in another file, you need to import it.
