1. Intro to Components
   Last updated July 2022

---

From now on, most of the JSX you will write will be encapsulated (contained) inside a Component.

2. What is a Component?

---

2.1 Short definition

A React Component is a function that returns one React Element, which describes how a section of the User Interface should look.

2.2 Longer definition

A React Component is a function that returns one React Element (result of React.createElement). That returned Element can have many children as we've seen in the previous chapter.
The Component allows you to split your UI into independent, reusable pieces.
This lets you think about each piece of your UI in isolation, making it easier to debug.
A React Component is a template or a blueprint that lets you describe a section of the UI; for example, <Footer></Footer> is a React Component that describes the footer.

Components promote code reuse.

2.3 Example

---

Here's an example of a React Component definition:

```function Footer() {
    return (
        <div>
            <h3>Company name</h3>
            <p>All rights reserved</p>
        </div>
    );
}
```

Once defined, this Footer Component can be used in the same JavaScript file with JSX:

```import {createRoot} from "react-dom/client";

function Footer() {
    return (
        <div>
            <h3>Company name</h3>
            <p>All rights reserved</p>
        </div>
    );
}

const root = document.querySelector("#root");

createRoot(root).render(<Footer></Footer>);
```

We call this a function component because the Component is defined as a function.

This course covers function components with Hooks. There's only one optional chapter on Classes towards the end of the course. The reasoning behind this choice is that you can do everything with hooks, and it's easier for you to learn. It becomes easier if you need to learn classes afterward because you know function components with hooks.

3. UpperCamelCase Component Name

---

You may have noticed that we called the function Footer rather than footer. This is necessary. The first character must be in upper case for it to be considered a Component; we'll explain why in the next lesson.
For now, make sure to write function names in UpperCamelCase; here are some examples:

    Footer
    ChatMessage
    Button
    ListItem

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
Recap

    1. 1A React Component is a function that returns one React Element describing a section of the UI.
    2. Components defined with a function are called function components.
    3. React Components promote code reuse and are easier to debug.
    4. A React Component's name has to start with an uppercase.
    5. Use UpperCamelCase when naming React Components

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
