1. JSX Children
   Last updated February 2023

---

So far, we've only worked with JSX elements that had no children, for example, a div or an h1.
But your UI will contain more advanced elements, such as the following HTML:

```<ul>
    <li>First item</li>
    <li>Second item</li>
    <li>Third item</li>
</ul>
```

In JSX, this can be represented like this:

```const list = <ul>
<li>First item</li>
<li>Second item</li>
<li>Third item</li>
</ul>;
```

The equivalent in React.createElement(...) becomes more complicated and harder to read:

```const list = React.createElement("ul", null,
React.createElement("li", null, "First item"),
React.createElement("li", null, "Second item"),
React.createElement("li", null, "Third item")
);
```

It works because React.createElement takes all the arguments passed after the 2nd one and considers them children.
So in this case, the list is a React.createElement("ul", null, child1, child2, child3).
Where child1 is the first li item, child2 is the second li item, etc.

You don't have to write the React.createElement(...) code yourself, but it's good to know how it works.

2. Gotchas

---

There are some gotchas and tricky scenarios that we will be discussing in this chapter.

The first one being that later on, you may use Prettier to format your code, or you may format your code by yourself, and once you start having more advanced UIs, you will most likely write the return on one line, and the rest on another line, like this:

```function getList() {
return
<ul>
<li>First Item</li>
<li>Second Item</li>
</ul>;
}
```

But this will break your code because of a JavaScript concept called Automatic Semi-colon Insertion (ASI).
What ends up happening here, is that JavaScript will automatically insert a semi-colon after your return when it gets transformed from JSX to JavaScript, so your code becomes like this:

```function getList() {
return;
React.createElement("ul", null,
React.createElement("li", null, "First Item"),
React.createElement("li", null, "Second Item")
);
}
```

Notice how the ; was added right after the return, which means that the function never reaches the React.createElement("ul", ...). This is the correct behavior of JavaScript as it requires compilers to automatically insert a semi-colon (if it doesn't already exist) after certain keywords (more details on MDN).

To avoid this issue, always return () and write the JSX elements inside the parentheses. So the above code becomes:

```const getList = () => {
return (
<ul>
<li>First Item</li>
<li>Second Item</li>
</ul>
);
}
```

By opening the (), no semi-colon will be automatically inserted after return until the closing parenthesis is found, and you avoid unexpected issues.

Feel free to try this on babel. You will need to wrap the JSX element with () for it to work.

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
Recap

    1. JSX supports children
    2. Always wrap your JSX elements with () when written after a return

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
