1. JSX Fragments
   Last updated June 2022

---

This lesson is the last preparation before we start learning about Components!

When returning elements in JSX, you can only return one element at a time.
That element can have children, but you must ensure that you're only returning one element at a time, or else you will get a syntax error.

That's because every Element is an object, and you cannot return two or more objects next to each other.

2. React.Fragment

---

React solves this by making you return a Fragment that wraps the elements that you want to return.
So if you want to return the below HTML from a function:

```<h1>Grocery delivered to your door</h1>
<h2>Free delivery</h2>
<p>Get started now!</p>
```

You will have to use a Fragment that wraps these 3 elements:

```function getHeroBanner() {
    return (
        <>
            <h1>Grocery delivered to your door</h1>
            <h2>Free delivery</h2>
            <p>Get started now!</p>
        </>
    );
}
```

Notice how the opening fragment <> and the closing fragment </> wrap the elements.
The fragment is an internal representation in React that lets you wrap multiple elements.
You can choose to return a <div>; however, the <div> will end up being rendered in your final HTML, whereas fragment tags will disappear (the content of the fragment will be rendered).
Let's say you've got approximately 100 React components. In that case, wrapping each component with an unnecessary <div> would make things slower as the size of the DOM would increase.

So we do recommend using the <> whenever needed.

3. React.Fragment (original syntax)

---

The short syntax for React.Fragment (<> and </>) was recently introduced.
You might see code using the original syntax with React.Fragment:

```function getHeroBanner() {
    return (
        <React.Fragment>
            <h1>Grocery delivered to your door</h1>
            <h2>Free delivery</h2>
            <p>Get started now!</p>
        </React.Fragment>
    );
}
```

They are essentially the same thing.

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
Recap

    1. You can only return 1 element in JSX.
    2. Wrap multiple elements with React.Fragment.
    3. The short syntax is <> that can be closed with </>.
    4. The original syntax is: <React.Fragment> and </React.Fragment>.

/\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***\*\*\***\*\*\*\*\***/
