Events 
Last updated June 2022
****
We saw the basics of click events 2 chapters ago which allowed us to introduce the concept of hooks & state.

Now that we know about closures, it's time to dive deeper into events in React.

1. Attaching an event to a DOM element
***

In pure JavaScript, we use element.addEventListener("click", () => {}), however in React we use the following syntax in JSX:
```
onClick={() => }, for example: <button onClick={() => console.log("I was clicked")}>Login</button>.
```
It's important that it has to be onClick rather than onclick (the event name must be in lowerCamelCase).

Another common pitfall is when you forget the function definition, so <button onClick={console.log("I was clicked")}>Login</button> will log: I was clicked the moment the page has loaded and will not work on click.
That's because console.log("I was clicked") will execute on page load and will not attach to the Click event handler.

2. Accessibility
***
Technically speaking, you can add onClick to any DOM element, for example:

1. p
2. ul
3. div
4. button
5. a
6. etc.

However, you should only add it to the <button> element for accessibility reasons.
Accessibility is the practice of making your website accessible (usable) to all kinds of users regardless of abilities.
For example, some of your users may be using a Screen Reader to access your website. If you add an onClick to elements other than the button, they may not be able to click on those elements.

We'll cover that in more detail in a later chapter; for now, keep in mind that you should only use onClick on <button> elements.

3. Other types of events
***

We will be mostly working with Click events until we introduce the concept of Forms in a later chapter, but you can already see how to implement other types of events:

1. **"click" => onClick**
2. **"keyup" => onKeyUp**
3. **"keydown" => onKeyDown**
4. **"change" => onChange**

Notice that the event name is in lowerCamelCase preceded by on, meaning it's onKeyPress rather than onkeypress. The k has to be an uppercase K (the same for P).
```
<input type="text" placeholder="Enter your name" onChange={() => console.log('change!')} />
```
Recap
***
1. onClick should only be used on <button> elements for better accessibility.
2. onEventName is the general syntax for adding events to an element.
3. onKeyDown attaches the keydown event to an element.
